{\rtf1\ansi \deff78\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers{\*\falt Univers (W1)};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs16 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb280\sa10 \b\f4\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 annotation text;}{\s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext16 footnote text;}{\s17\fi-187\li302\ri130\sb80\sl-240\slmult1\tx302 \f7\fs16 \sbasedon0\snext19 lb1;}{\s18\ri130\sb80 \b\f78\fs16 
\sbasedon17\snext18 heading2;}{\s19\fi-187\li302\ri130\sb48\sl-240\slmult1\tx302 \f7\fs16 \sbasedon17\snext19 Lb2;}{\s20\li2\ri2\sb120\sa40 \b\f4\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext20 proc;}{\*\cs21 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\*\cs22 \additive
\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\author Harold Daniels}{\creatim\yr1994\mo9\dy23\hr10\min47}{\printim\yr1994\mo9\dy26\hr14\min51}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49203}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0 \fet0
\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 About this topic file sample}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} ABOUT_SAMPLE}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 001}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} topic file sample}}{\b0  }About This Topic File Sample
\par \pard\plain \li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs16 This is the first topic of a very short but functional topic file. The idea is to cover some of the basics within the context of an actual component of a Help file.
\par This topic file (SAMPLE6.RTF) is one of three components of a WinHelp 4.0 Help file. The other two are the Project file (SAMPLE.HPJ) and the Contents file (SAMPLE.CNT). Compiled together these three files comprise the Help file (SAMPLE.HLP).
\par This topic file was prepared in MS Word 6.0 using the Normal template and saved in the Rich Text Format type.
\par We recommend you read through this file once quickly to get an overall concept of its structure and then spend some time examining individual topics. Many of the topics here contain instructional and sometimes reference material, but keep in mind as your 
read this material that it was never intended to be complete.
\par Once you are relatively familiar with the contents of this topic file, print out a paper copy, run SAMPLE.HLP, and compare the two with an eye to how the results were achieved. And then repeat this with the Project and Contents files.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 \page {\cs22\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super *} sample}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} About topics}}{\b0  }{
\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} ABOUT_TOPICS}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 002}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 
\f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Help topic;Help topic, informational text;informational text;hotspots;Help topic, hotspots;Help topic, footnotes;footnotes}} About Topics
\par \pard\plain \li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs16 The Help topic is the basic unit of information in a Help file. Topics are prepared, one to a page, in topic files. Topic files are saved as Rich Text Format type and must have an .RTF extension.
\par An individual topic contains one or more of the following components:
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li362\ri130\sb80 \f7\fs16 {\f78 \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab }{\b\f78 Informational material}{\f78 . This is the text you are reading now, including the headline, \ldblquote About topics.\rdblquote  We\rquote 
ll say more about informational material in another topic of this topic file.
\par \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab }{\b\f78 Hotspots}{\f78 . Hotspots are special points on a topi
c screen. When the user clicks on a hotspot, another topic appears or a macro is run. A hotspot can be a word, a phrase, a graphic, or a portion of a graphic. In this topic the three subheads are designated as hotspots. The text formatted Hidden (shown he
re in dotted underline) is the topic ID of the topic that will appear.
\par \tab When this topic is displayed in the finished Help system, these hotspots will appear single-underlined and green. The hidden topic ID text, of course, will not be visible. We\rquote ll say more about hotspots in another topic of this topic file.

\par \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab }{\b\f78 Footnotes}{\f78 . Footnotes with custom footnote marks define certain characteristics of each topic. This topic has five footnotes. To view their contents select Footnotes from the View menu. We\rquote 
ll say more about footnotes in another topic of this sample topic file.
\par }\pard\plain \s18\ri130\sb80 \b\f78\fs16 Note
\par \pard\plain \li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs16 \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab The text \{{\v  }bmc bullet.bmp\} is a bitmap reference that results in the display of a bullet symbol when this topic appears in the finished Help system.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 \page {\cs22\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super *} Sample}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} About informational text}}{
\b0  }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} INFO_MAT}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 003}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super A{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 
\f78\fs20 {\cs22\super A} sample_a}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Informational text}}{\b0  }About Informational Text
\par \pard\plain \qr\sa120\keepn \f78\fs16 {\uldb \{bmct HT_00.bmp\}}{\v !ALink(DO_IT,0,"",proc4)}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 Before we get into informational text, notice the reference text with curly brackets just above this sentence. This is a custom button configured as a hotspot. The text \ldblquote ALink\rdblquote 
 is the name of a macro that displays a list of all topics having the A-keyword designated in the parentheses, in this case \ldblquote DO_IT.\rdblquote  The text \ldblquote proc4\rdblquote 
 specifies that the topic is to be displayed in a proc4 window as defined in the Project file. Only one topic in this topic file has the A-keyword \ldblquote DO_IT,\rdblquote  so only one topic is displayed in the list.
\par Back to information text....
\par Information text is what the user sees when he runs a Help system. Here the informational material comprises the title, \ldblquote Informational material\rdblquote  and this paragraph of text.
\par This topic has five footnotes, but no hotspots{\v . To view the contents of the footnotes of this sample topic file, select Footnote in the View menu.}
\par When this topic is displayed in the finished Help file, a vertical scroll bar will appear to allow the user to scroll through the entire text. The heading \ldblquote About Informational Material\rdblquote  will not scroll because it has been formatted 
\ldblquote Keep with Next\rdblquote  in the Paragraph dialog box (available on the Format menu).
\par The rest of this topic is dummy text to demonstrate jumps within a topic and the effect of long topics with scroll bars and nonscrolling text.
\par {\uldb Jump to beginning of topic}{\v INFO_MAT}
\par {\uldb Jump to Alpha}{\v ALPHA}
\par {\uldb Jump to Beta}{\v BETA}
\par {\uldb Jump to Gamma}{\v GAMMA}
\par {\uldb Jump to Omega}{\v OMEGA}
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy t
ext. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This i
s dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par {\cs22\b\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} ALPHA}}{\b  Alpha
\par }
This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy t
ext. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy t
ext. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy 
text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is d
ummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par {\cs22\b\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} BETA}}{\b  Beta
\par }This is dumm
y text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is
 dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This
 is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
 This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy te
xt. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dum
my text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par {\cs22\b\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} GAMMA}}{\b  Gamma
\par }This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy t
ext. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This
 is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
 This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy t
ext. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. Th
is is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy tex
t. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par {\cs22\b\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} OMEGA}}{\b  Omega
\par }This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text. This is dummy text.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 \page {\cs22\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super *} Sample}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} About hotspots}}{\b0  }{
\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} HOTSPOT}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 004}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super A{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {
\cs22\super A} sample_a}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} hotspots;hotspots, jump;hotspots, graphics;hotspots, pop-up}}{\b0  }About Hotspots
\par \pard\plain \qr\sa120\keepn \f78\fs16 {\uldb \{bmct HT_00.bmp\}}{\v !ALink(DO_IT,0,"",proc4)}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 Hotspots are special points on a topic screen. A cursor arrow become a pointing hand when over a hotspot. When the user clicks on a hotspot, another topic appears or
 a macro is run. A hotspot can be a word, a phrase, a graphic, or a portion of a graphic.
\par \pard \sb240 {\b 1. The following text is a jump hotspot:
\par }\pard \sb120 \tab \tab \tab \tab {\uldb Footnotes}{\v FOOTNOTE}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 The word \ldblquote Footnotes\rdblquote  is double underlined and will appear single-underlined and green in the finished Help file. The word \ldblquote FOOTNOTE\rdblquote  is the topic ID (a topic\rquote 
s unique identifier) for a topic about footnotes. The word \ldblquote FOOTNOTE\rdblquote  is formatted as hidden text and does not appear in the displayed Help file. When the user clicks \ldblquote Footnote\rdblquote  in the displayed Help f
ile, the current topic will disappear and the topic with the topic ID \ldblquote FOOTNOTE\rdblquote  will appear in its place.
\par \pard \sb240 {\b 2. The following text is a graphic hotspot:
\par }\pard \sb120 \tab \tab \tab \tab {\uldb \{bmct light.bmp\}}{\v GRAPHICS}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 The bitmap reference \ldblquote \{{\v  }bmct light.bmp\}\rdblquote 
 is double underlined to make it a hotspot, but the displayed graphic will appear normal (that is, with no underlining or green overlay) in the displayed Help file. The word \ldblquote GRAPHICS\rdblquote 
 is formatted as hidden text and does not appear in the displayed Help file.
\par \pard \sb240 {\b 3. The following text is a pop-up hotspot:
\par }\pard \sb120 \tab \tab \tab \tab {\ul Pop-up}{\v POPUP}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 The word \ldblquote Pop-up\rdblquote  is {\b single} underlined and will appear dotted underlined and green in the finished Help file. The word \ldblquote POPUP\rdblquote 
 is the topic ID for a topic that will display in the pop-up window. The word \ldblquote POPUP\rdblquote  is formatted as hidden text and does not appear in the displayed Help file. When the user clicks \ldblquote Pop-up\rdblquote 
 in the displayed Help file, the current topic will remain, but the topic with the topic ID \ldblquote POPUP\rdblquote  will appear on top until the user clicks anywhere.
\par \pard \sb240 {\b 4. The following graphic is a multiple hotspot graphic
\par }\pard \li2\ri2\sb80 \tab \tab \tab \tab \{bmct earth.SHG\}
\par It was prepared using the Microsoft Hotspot Editor (SHED.EXE) and has seven hotspots. When the user clicks on a portion of the map, a pop-up topic displays to identify the region.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 \page {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} About multimedia}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} MULTIMEDIA}}{\b0  
}{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 005}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super A{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super A} sample_a}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 
\f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} multimedia;multimedia, including;sound;animation;video;including, sound;including, animation;including, video}}{\b0  }About Multimedia
\par \pard\plain \li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs16 
Multimedia can often be more useful to a user than ordinary text. For example, an animation of a task might be more helpful than a step-by-step description, or it might be useful as a summary. In addition, sound can be useful in providing feedback to the 
user.
\par The following topic statement adds a sound (.WAV) file to the Help file:  \{mci EXTERNAL PLAY,jolly.wav\}
\par \pard \sb80 The EXTERNAL command keeps the file outside of the Help file, so it does not increase the size of the compiled Help file. The PLAY command causes the sound file to play as soon as the topic is opened.
\par {\b Note
\par }If your computer is not setup to play multimedia files, you will get an error message when you display this topic.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 \page {\cs22\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super *} maybe}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super @{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super @}
 Fred says he may want to get rid of this topic altogether. For now, he wants two versions of the Help file, one with and one without this topic.}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} About footnotes}}{
\b0  }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} FOOTNOTE}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 005}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super Q{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 
\f78\fs20 {\cs22\super Q} footnotes}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super A{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super A} sample_a}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K}
 footnotes;topic ID;title;keyword;A-keyword;multi-index keyword;browse code;entry macro;build tag;window type;comment;footnotes, topic ID;footnotes, title; footnotes, keyword; footnotes, A-keyword;footnotes, multi-index keyword;footnotes, browse code;foot
notes, entry macro;footnotes, build tag;footnotes, window type;footnotes, comment}}{\b0  }About Footnotes
\par \pard\plain \qr\sa120\keepn \f78\fs16 {\uldb \{bmct HT_00.bmp\}}{\v !ALink(DO_IT,0,"",proc4)}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 Footnotes define certain characteristics of each topic. This topic has five footnotes. To view their contents select Footnotes from the View menu.
\par \pard \fi-2750\li2880\ri2\sb80\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1620\tx2880 {\b Parameter\tab Footnote mark\tab Purpose}
\par \pard \fi-2750\li2880\ri2\sb60\tx1620\tx2880 Topic ID\tab #\tab 
Defines a unique identifier for a topic. Mandatory. In this topic the topic ID is FOOTNOTE. (Note: Actually, a topic can have more than one topic ID distributed throughout a single topic. Jumps to one of these additional topic IDs will open a t
opic at the point the custom mark was inserted.)
\par Title\tab $\tab Specifies the title of the topic as it appears in various places throughout the Help file. In this topic, the title is \ldblquote About footnotes.\rdblquote  Note the lowercase \lquote f\rquote .
\par Keyword\tab K\tab Specifies words used in the index and in {\b KLink} macros. In this topic, keywords are cross-listed for their separate listing in the index and as sublistings under the heading, \ldblquote footnotes.\rdblquote 
\par A-Keyword\tab A\tab Specifies words that identify the topic to {\b ALink} macros. In this topic an A-keyword footnote contains \ldblquote sample_a.\rdblquote 
\par Browse Code\tab +\tab Defines topic's place in a browse sequence. This topic\rquote s browse code is \lquote 005,\rquote  indicating that it is the fifth in sequence when the user clicks the browse buttons.
\par Entry Macro\tab {\fs20 !}\tab Specifies a macro that runs when user opens the topic. In this topic the entry macro footnote is not used.
\par Build tag\tab {\fs20 *}\tab Identifies topics for conditional compiler builds. This topic\rquote s build tag is \lquote maybe.\rquote 
 By placing an instruction in the project file, you can exclude this topic from the finished help file but retain it in the topic file. When build tags are used, their footnote marks must be the first of any series of footnote marks.
\par Window type\tab >\tab Specifies a window type for the topic. In this topic the window type footnote is not used.
\par Comment\tab @\tab Includes an author's notes about the topic. User does not see this text. This topic has internal note about a pending issue. 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb280\sa10\keepn \b\f4\fs28 \page {\cs22\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super *} Sample}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} About graphics}}{\b0  }{
\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} GRAPHICS}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super +} 006}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super A{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 
{\cs22\super A} sample_a}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} graphics;.DIB;.BMP;.WMF;.SHG;.MRB;graphics, .DIB;graphics, .BMP; graphics, .WMF;graphics, .SHG; graphics, .MRB}}{\b0  }About Graphics
\par \pard\plain \qr\sa120\keepn \f78\fs16 {\uldb \{bmct HT_00.bmp\}}{\v !ALink(DO_IT,0,"",proc4)}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 You can include graphics of the following formats in your Help file.
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1170 {\b Format\tab Description
\par }\pard \li2\ri2\sb80\tx1170 .DIB\tab Windows bitmap
\par .BMP\tab Windows bitmap
\par .WMF\tab Windows metafile
\par .SHG\tab Windows Help multi-hotspot bitmap
\par .MRB\tab Windows Help multi-resolution bitmap
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 Although it is possible to paste a graphic directly into topic from the clipboard, the best way to include a graphic in a topic is indirectly by using the special bitmap reference statement {\b \{bm}x{\b \}}
. This method has the following advantages:
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li362\ri130\sb80 \f7\fs16 {\f78 \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab Correct display of standard system colors
\par \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab Correct display of pictures using custom color palettes
\par \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab Permits portions of the graphic to serve as hotspots for topic, pop-up, and macro jumps
\par \{bmc bullet.bmp\}\tab Correct display of transparent bitmaps
\par }\pard\plain \li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs16 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} POPUP}}
 This is an example of a pop-up topic. Pop-up topics are ideal for context-sensitive help and short definitions. They seldom need more than a topic ID footnote.
\par \pard\plain \s20\li2\ri2\sb120\sa40 \b\f4\fs22 \page {\cs22\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super *} Sample}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super $} How to do almost anything
}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} DO_IT}}{\b0  }{\cs22\b0\super >{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super >} proc4}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super A{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super A} DO_IT}}{\b0  }{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super K} how to;how to, skate;how to, sculpt;how to, write poetry;how to, perform brain surgery}}{\b0  }
How to do almost anything
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f78\fs16 1.\tab}\pard\plain \fi-360\li362\ri2\sb80{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f78\fs16 Plan
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f78\fs16 2.\tab}Draft
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f78\fs16 3.\tab}Finalize
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 
Expecting a longer procedure? Actually, this is here just to give you an example of a secondary window. Secondary windows are topic windows without a menu bar. Because they remain open unless explicitly closed, they are ideal for procedures and other info
rmation that the user will frequently consult while actually working within an application.
\par \pard \sb80\sa120 \{Button ,ALink(sample_a,0,"",main)\} {\uldb Related Topics}{\v %!ALink(sample_a,0,"",main)}
\par \pard \li2\ri2\sb80 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} NORTH_AMERICA}} This is North America.
\par \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} MEXICO}} This is Mexico.
\par \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} SOUTH_AMERICA}} This is South America.
\par \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} EUROPE}} This is Europe.
\par \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} AFRICA}} This is Africa.
\par \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} ASIA}} This is Asia.
\par \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\li2\ri2\sb80 \f78\fs20 {\cs22\super #} AUSTRALIA}} This is Australia
\par }